You've done everything you're supposed
to do to have a great life. You've built
the career. You've went to the right
college. You're dating the right people.
You have the network. And yet, you still
feel alone in most of the rooms that you
get into. And you don't feel the kind of
support that you always hope that you'd
find. And this is an incredibly common
thing. And it's becoming more and more
prevalent in society. And the way
through it is really not something that
most people understand or see clearly.
And after working with hundreds of
people in a lot of our courses that have
this experience, I really wanted to make
a video that would show people that once
they see the situation clearly, what to
do to make that change become so
obvious. And so that's what we're going
to do in this video.
The main thing that you'll notice that
when people feel all alone and they feel
unseen in a situation is that they're
constantly concerned about what other
people think. They're trying to live a
life that people say, "Yay, you're
living a good life." And as it turns
out, that's just impossible. You can
have some people say you're living a
good life some days, but there's nobody
anywhere that's going to think that
you're living the perfect life at all
times, let alone everybody thinking that
you're living a life at all times that's
perfect. Because nobody can always see
you. You can't even always see yourself,
right? You can't like understand
yourself completely from one moment to a
next moment. And so other people can't
do that for you either. and and having
been married for 26 years, I can't even
always get the approval of my wife. And
I've definitely never gotten all the
approval of my father or my mother. And
so, you're always going to have somebody
who's criticizing you. And they
criticize you for many reasons. Maybe
their blood sugar's low, maybe they
haven't had enough coffee, maybe they
didn't exercise that day. There's always
going to be somebody out there who's not
going to be happy with what you're
doing. And if that's the case and you're
looking at them to tell you, okay,
you're good enough, then you're always
going to feel unseen in that. And so
what we do typically when we are in that
position of not feeling seen is that
we're not being ourselves, so we can't
be seen. We're being somebody else to
please people, which never works. And so
instead of being seen for who you are
and having those moments of oh goodness
gracious that they see me and I can and
I can feel that I'm always presenting
something. I'm always fronting so that
people can't actually see what I am.
They're just seeing my front. So the the
satisfaction can't be found in some
perfection that's out there either in
yourself or somebody else. It can only
be found in those moments of, oh, for
this moment, I am surprised by how well
somebody sees me or how well I see
myself. And it only happens when you're
living a life where you're thinking, oh,
is this something that I approve of? Is
this something that am I acting right
now in a way that feels great to me? And
if I'm not, then what do I do to act in
a way right now that feels great to me
despite what the people who haven't had
enough coffee or the people who've had
bad upbringings or the people who are
paranoid think,
right? And so if you want to feel seen,
you have to be yourself. If you're not
yourself, you can't be seen. Only some
makebelieve part of you can be seen.
A second way that typically we're going
to feel all alone in a room is that if
we don't trust other people's
connection. And typically this is
something that we've learned. What we've
learned is that people are going to let
us down. That we're not going to get the
support that we truly want. We have some
idea that, oh, we have to do X, Y, and Z
to get love. And of course, X, Y, and Z
never shows up. All the stuff that you
thought you had to do to get love at 13
is different than all the stuff you
think you have to do to get love today.
maybe essentially it's the same but the
details keep on changing and this
happens a lot with CEOs that I know that
are very high achieving CEOs where
there's just all sorts of people that
they like organization has like what
what let's say 2 3,000 people or 10,000
people and everybody in that
organization on some level wants the CEO
to feel impressed with with what they're
doing. They want the approval of the
CEO. they want to do a good job that
nobody wakes up and is like, "You know
what? I hope that the CEO
hates the work I'm doing today and I do
a really shitty job."
And yet most CEOs can't see that that's
what everybody's trying to do. They feel
alone in it. They get upset because they
feel like, "Oh, I'm holding this all by
myself." Even though that they're not.
And that's when you know you're in this
situation where you're actually pushing
the support away instead of actually
seeing it.
And it can be so obvious as in a whole
group of people trying to support you.
Or it could be less obvious like, oh
yeah, your wife or husband isn't doing
the thing that you want them to do, but
it doesn't mean that they're not
supporting you. They're trying to
support you in an way that's authentic
to them. And you push that away. And
when you do that, you're never really
going to be you're never going to really
feel seen. So, it's really important to
acknowledge on a day-to-day basis, oh,
what is it that's happened today that
people are trying to do to support me?
And when you do it, you'll realize there
is really no day that goes by where
there isn't somebody trying to support
you, somebody trying to get you like a
great cup of coffee or somebody trying
to make a great YouTube video with you
or somebody trying to help you build
your business.
It's always around you and it's just
something that you have a hard time
seeing if you're used to, oh, I have to
achieve for love. I have to achieve for
feeling worthy. And so, typically, one
of the things that you'll notice of the
people feel all alone in the world is
because they are feeling like, oh, I
have to achieve to be worthy. They think
that that's the case.
The third thing that makes people feel
all alone is that they're not actually
facing the aloneeness. they're not
actually facing that part of themselves
that feels like, oh, I'm not good
enough. And if they don't face that part
of themselves, then they're constantly
being run by it. So, typically what
happens when somebody has this feeling
like being alone in a great relationship
with themselves is something that's
really scary. So, they keep themselves
incredibly busy, constantly occupied.
And because it's constantly occupied,
they don't actually get to see what that
feeling is. And so typically what I see
in my clients is when they turn towards
it and say, "Oh, I'm going to go and
spend three days alone and really feel
that aloneeness is that that feeling is
actually the quickest way to their
freedom." It's a bit like, you know, the
classic tale of Luke Skywalker going
into the dark cave and facing the thing
and coming out with it with the
knowledge of how to handle it. It's the
same thing. That place that we consider
to be a void is often the most direct
route to our freedom. Because what we
find out is that part of ourselves that
is feels like they're not enough is
actually our longing to be loved. And
the only thing that longs to be loved is
love. So if you actually spend time with
that thing, if you spend time and just
be in presence with that part of you
that is, oh my gosh, I'm I'm not good
enough.
But what you do, what you're actually
doing is spending time with that young
part of you that always wanted just that
attention and validation that you
weren't given as a kid, that you weren't
given as an adult because you've been
running around thinking that you have to
earn something. And you stop and you
lean into that and you, oh, look at
that.
Like, how could a three-year-old be
enough or a 5-year-old be enough or a
25-year-old be enough or a or how could
they be not enough? How can you say like
a 25-year-old is not enough or a
5-year-old is not enough?
It's really just running from this
emotional state that keeps us in the
habit. And if we lean towards it, man,
it's just so obvious that it's just this
thing looking for love. And eventually,
if you spend enough time with it, you
go, "Oh, well then I'll give you the
love. I'll show up for you. I don't have
to reject this part of myself.
I remember that when this became like
deeply apparent to me is that I had a
friend who had a what he thought was a
great relationship with a great woman
and the woman broke up with him. And
before the breakup, he was drinking
pretty heavily. He was partying a lot.
His business was not doing so well. He
was out of shape.
And
he called me up and said, "You know,
Joe, what do I do?" And I said, "Man,
you've got to mourn that thing. you've
got to face into that experience
and just allow whatever grief comes up.
And so he had this commute. He went to
uh from like Flagstaff to Yuma, Arizona
once a week for his work. And he said he
called me up and you know I don't know
like two weeks in. He said, "I'm howling
like I I've never heard these sounds
come out of me. I'm facing this
breakup." And then a couple months later
he's like, "I'm still doing it, but now
I'm not mourning the breakup anymore.
I'm mourning all the parts of the things
that got me into the breakup. All the
things that I learned in my life that
allowed for this pattern to happen. And
so he just mourned.
And 6 months later, he's in shape. He's
not drinking. His business is doing
great. And that's what it is when you
actually face that abyss. What you're
doing is you're facing the thing that's
been driving you your whole life because
you're not taking a look at it. And if
you take a look at it, yeah, it's
uncomfortable at first, but it really
quickly becomes a direct path to
freedom. It's amazing how short of a
period of time because I know it sounds
really unappealing. Like, what do you
mean? I got to look at the thing that
I've been using my entire life not to
look at, right? Like, what? That doesn't
sound smart, Joe. And and and all I can
say is if you do it two or three times
for two or three hours, you'll notice it
gets easier right away. And it's a whole
lot easier than avoiding it because that
takes an entire life of energy to avoid
it.
There's obviously a lot of things that
you can do, practical stuff that you can
do. You can not avoid that emotional
experience and you can feel it. You can
uh see that there's a whole bunch of
people who are trying to support you.
You can
give yourself the love and
acknowledgement that you're looking for
outside. You can constantly be saying to
yourself, "Oh, is this the thing that I
want to be doing right now that I'm
proud of?" Instead of looking for
somebody else to verify you, but the
thing that's going to get you the most
bang for the buck right away is every
day sit down and think of three to five
people who have helped you out. Doesn't
matter if they helped you out in the
past or they helped you out that day.
Doesn't matter if it's a little help out
like got you a cup of coffee or a big
help out like gave you business advice
or
made a video for you. It doesn't really
matter. Just something that somebody has
done to support you and write them a
thank you note. Just like a hey, I
really appreciate that. And what that
does is it allows you to acknowledge
what's being done for you so that you
can see that you're actually not alone.
So you can see the support that you
have. And that support when you start to
see it builds a base that makes it
easier to face into that abyss that
you've been avoiding your whole life. So
it's the thing that's going to get you
the most bang for the buck. And it's
super easy and it feels really good to
do.